# Baseball-Helpers: Aging Curves

This package is designed to create Aging Curves in Baseball or other sports for that matter if desired. Currently there is 1 type of aging curve based on the Delta Method, and the Z-score method is in development. Also, the user can only plot Aging Curves for an individual or list of individuals, but not within groups say Starters vs. Relivers or Infielders vs Outfielders. 

The aging curve functions (delta_method and zscore_method) take an Id, a Stat, and an optional Weight argument. The Id, defined as playerid in the functions, is the unique identifier for each player in the dataset. The Stat is the statisitc we want to create an Aging Curve for such as AVG, SLG, wOBA, etc. The Weight is if we want to weight the statistic by some type of condition, such as Plate Appearances, Pitches, Innings, etc. You rarely do not want to not weight a statistic, as players who have more opporutnites effect the analysis.  The functions will return the aging curve data to be used in a plot or table along with the number of players sampled at each age.

The plot_ac functions display the statistic on the y-axis, Age on the x-axis, and the number of players per Age on the plot itself. Displaying the sample size provides context as to how reliable the numbers presented are. Each stat can be either a `rate` or `counting` stat. Rate stats are usually discussed in terms of 0-1, as in they have decimals such as AVG or OBP, while Counting stats are things like At Bats, Velocity, wRC, stats with whole numbers. The axis are based on the values in the dataset itself and if the user would like to make them manual, then they will have to adjust the code as they see fit. There are also optional parameters to set the minimum and maximum Age limits, default is 1 to 100. The functions return a plotnine object.

For more information on aging curves in general, please see https://library.fangraphs.com/the-beginners-guide-to-aging-curves/.
